# Own answers to written questions for lab 1

## 3. Workspace and Packages

### 3.1 Written questions

1. CMakeList vs Makefile

   - CMakeList file contains a set of directives and instructions describing the project's source files and targets. It is the input to the CMake build system for building software packages. Any CMake-compliant package contains one or more CMakeLists.txt file that describe how to build the code and where to install it to.
   - Makefile is a simple way to organise code compilation for C/C++ objects.
   - CMakeList is related to makefile. Make (or rather a Makefile) is a buildsystem - it drives the compiler and other build tools to build your code. CMake is a generator of buildsystems. It can produce Makefiles, it can produce Ninja build files, ect. [Reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25789644/difference-between-using-makefile-and-cmake-to-compile-the-code)

2. CMakeLists.txt for Python in ROS
   - Yes, we also use CMakeLists.txt for Python in ROS
   - There are no executable object created for python. Python is an interpreted language. The make process only create autogenerated Python.
3. We run `catkin_make` in the workspace folder to build all the packages
4. Sourcing _setup.bash_ file is so that we can setup the environment, because [ROS relies on the notion of combining spaces using the shell environment](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/InstallingandConfiguringROSEnvironment).
   - The first _setup.bash_ file is sourced to get access to basic ros commands
   - The second _setup.bash_ file is sourced to get access to the built packages in the workspace

## 4. Publishers and Subscribers

### 4.3 Written questions

2. There is no nodehandle object in Python. `rospy.init_node()` initializes ROS node with a specified name for the rospy process.
3. We use `rospy.spin()` for Python. The command stays in an infinite loop until receiving a shutdown signal, and processes any events that occur ([Reference](https://answers.ros.org/question/332192/difference-between-rospyspin-and-rospysleep/)). The node with the subscriber will do the callback whenever it receives new data from the topic, until it receives a shutdown signal.

## 5. Implementing custom messages

### 5.1 Written questions

2. `Header` is a special type in ROS, which [contains a timestamp and coordinate frame information that are commonly used in ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/CreatingMsgAndSrv#Creating_a_msg). I can also extract that from the topic and include in the message file.

## 6. Recording and Publishing Bag Files

### 6.1 Written questions

1. The bag file gets saved in the current directory. To change where it is saved, we need to add the path to the `-o` argument when calling `rosbag record`.
2. By default, it will be in the `~/.ros` folder. We can change where it is saved by [editing the `args` for the node in the launch file](https://answers.ros.org/question/106126/giving-a-directory-to-output-file-in-a-launcher-for-rosbag-record-and-rostopic-echo/?answer=222874?answer=222874#post-id-222874).
